{"id": "Graduate school154992515195915499251519591549925151959.txt", "text": "Those that do not often have a requirement of taking two additional courses, minimum, in lieu of preparing a thesis. Ph.D. candidates undertaking research must typically complete a thesis, or dissertation, consisting of original research representing a significant contribution to their field, and ranging from two-hundred to five-hundred pages. Most Ph.D. candidates will be required to sit comprehensive examinations\u2014examinations testing general knowledge in their field of specialization\u2014in their second or third year as a prerequisite to continuing their studies, and must defend their thesis as a final requirement. Some faculties require candidates to earn sufficient credits in a third or fourth foreign language; for example, most candidates in modern Japanese topics must demonstrate ability in English, Japanese, and Mandarin, while candidates in pre-modern Japanese topics must demonstrate ability in English, Japanese, Classical Chinese, and Classical Japanese language. At English-speaking Canadian universities, both master's and Ph.D. theses may be presented in English or in the language of the subject (German for German literature, for example), but if this is the case, an extensive abstract must be also presented in English. In exceptional circumstances, a thesis may be presented in French. French-speaking universities have varying sets of rules; some will accept students with little knowledge of French if they can communicate with their supervisors (usually in English). France\r\nThe \u00e9coles doctorales (\"Doctoral schools\") are educational structures similar in focus to graduate schools, but restricted at PhD level. These schools have the responsibilities of providing students with a structured doctoral training in a disciplinary field. The field of the school is related to the strength of the university : while some have two or three schools (typically \"Arts and Humanities\" and \"Natural and Technological Sciences\"), others have more specialized schools (History, Aeronautics, etc.). Admission to a doctoral program requires a master's degree, both research-oriented and disciplinary focused. High marks are required (typically a tr\u00e8s bien honour, equating a cum laude), but the acceptance is linked to a decision of the School Academical Board. A large share of the funding offered to junior researchers is channeled through the \u00e9cole doctorale, mainly in the shape of three-years \"Doctoral Fellowships\" (contrats doctoraux). These fellowships are awarded after submitting a biographical information, undergraduate and graduate transcripts where applicable, letters of recommendation, and research proposal, then an oral examination by an Academical Committee. Germany\r\nSee also: List of graduate schools, German Universities Excellence Initiative\r\nThe traditional and most common way of obtaining a doctorate in Germany is by doing so individually under supervision of a single professor (Doktorvater or Doktormutter) without any formal curriculum. During their studies, doctoral students are enrolled at university while being employed simultaneously either at the university itself, at a research institute or at a company as a researcher. [5]\r\n\r\nWith the establishment of Graduiertenkollegs funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG), the German Research Foundation, in the early 1990s, the concept of a graduate school was introduced to the German higher education system. Unlike the American model of graduate schools, only doctoral students participate in a Graduiertenkolleg. "}