{"id": "Graduate school15499251519591549925151959154992515195915499251519591549925151959.txt", "text": "In some disciplines or universities, graduate applicants may find it best to have at least one recommendation from their research work outside of the college where they earned their bachelor's degree;[citation needed] however, as with previous research experience, this may not be very important in most humanities disciplines. Some schools set minimum GPAs and test scores below which they will not accept any applicants;[10] this reduces the time spent reviewing applications. On the other hand, many other institutions often explicitly state that they do not use any sort of cut-offs in terms of GPA or the GRE scores. Instead, they claim to consider many factors, including past research achievements, the compatibility between the applicant's research interest and that of the faculty, the statement of purpose and the letters of reference, as stated above. Some programs also require professors to act as sponsors. Finally, applicants from non-English speaking countries often must take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). [11]\r\n\r\nAt most institutions, decisions regarding admission are not made by the institution itself but the department to which the student is applying. Some departments may require interviews before making a decision to accept an applicant. [7] Most universities adhere to the Council of Graduate Schools' Resolution Regarding Graduate Scholars, Fellows, Trainees, and Assistants, which gives applicants until April 15 to accept or reject offers that contain financial support. [12]\r\n\r\nNon-degree seeking\r\nIn addition to traditional \"degree-seeking\" applications for admission, many schools allow students to apply as \"non degree-seeking\". [13] Admission to the Non Degree category is usually restricted primarily to those who may benefit professionally from additional study at the graduate level. For example, current primary, middle grades and secondary education teachers wishing to gain re-certification credit most commonly apply as Non Degree-Seeking students. Requirements for completion\r\nGraduate students often declare their intended degree (master's or doctorate) in their applications. In some cases, master's programs allow successful students to continue toward the doctorate degree. Additionally, doctoral students who have advanced to candidacy but not filed a dissertation (\"ABD,\" for \"all but dissertation\") often receive master's degrees and an additional master's called a Master of Philosophy (MPhil), or a Candidate of Philosophy (C.Phil.) degree. The master's component of a doctorate program often requires one or two years. Many graduate programs require students to pass one or several examinations in order to demonstrate their competence as scholars. [6] In some departments, a comprehensive examination is often required in the first year of doctoral study, and is designed to test a student's background undergraduate-level knowledge. Examinations of this type are more common in the sciences and some social sciences but relatively unknown in most humanities disciplines. Most graduate students perform teaching duties, often serving as graders and tutors. In some departments, they can be promoted to lecturer status, a position that comes with more responsibility. Doctoral students generally spend roughly their first two to three years taking coursework and begin research by their second year if not before. "}