At the Ph.D. level, though, it is quite common to take courses from a wider range of study, for which some fixed portion of coursework, sometimes known as a residency, is typically required to be taken from outside the department and college of the degree-seeking candidate, to broaden the research abilities of the student. Some institutions[which?] designate separate graduate versus undergraduate staff and denote other divisions. [not verified in body]


Contents
1	Australia
2	Brazil
3	Canada
3.1	Admission
3.2	Funding
3.3	Requirements for completion
4	France
5	Germany
6	United Kingdom
7	United States
7.1	Admission
7.2	Non-degree seeking
7.3	Requirements for completion
7.4	Funding
7.5	Graduate employee unions
8	See also
9	Notes
10	References
11	Further reading
12	External links
Australia
Further information on graduate schools in Australia: Postgraduate education § Australia
[icon]	
This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (January 2015)
Brazil
Further information: Universities and higher education in Brazil
Graduate degrees in Brazil are called "postgraduate" degrees, and can be taken only after an undergraduate education has been concluded". Lato sensu graduate degrees: degrees that represent a specialization in a certain area, and take from 1 to 2 years to complete. Sometimes it can be used to describe a specialization level between a master's degree and a MBA. In that sense, the main difference is that the Lato Sensu courses tend to go deeper into the scientific aspects of the study field, while MBA programs tend to be more focused on the practical and professional aspects, being used more frequently to Business, Management and Administration areas. However, since there are no norms to regulate this, both names are used indiscriminately most of the time. Stricto sensu graduate degrees: degrees for those who wish to pursue an academic career. Masters: 2 years for completion. Usually serves as additional qualification for those seeking a differential on the job market (and maybe later a PhD), or for those who want to pursue a PhD. Most doctoral programs in Brazil require a master's degree (stricto sensu), meaning that a Lato Sensu Degree is usually insufficient to start a doctoral program. Doctors / PhD: 3–4 years for completion. Usually used as a stepping stone for academic life. Canada
In Canada, the Schools and Faculties of Graduate Studies are represented by the Canadian Association of Graduate Studies (CAGS) or Association canadienne pour les études supérieures (ACES). The Association brings together 58 Canadian universities with graduate programs, two national graduate student associations, and the three federal research-granting agencies and organizations having an interest in graduate studies. [3] Its mandate is to promote, advance, and foster excellence in graduate education and university research in Canada. In addition to an annual conference, the association prepares briefs on issues related to graduate studies including supervision, funding, and professional development. Admission
Admission to a master's program generally requires a bachelor's degree in a related field, with sufficiently high grades usually ranging from B+ and higher (note that different schools have different letter grade conventions, and this requirement may be significantly higher in some faculties), and recommendations from professors. 