
University of Toronto
Utoronto coa.svg
Coat of arms of the University of Toronto
Latin: Universitas Torontonensis
Former names
King's College (1827–1849)
Motto	Latin: Velut arbor ævo
Motto in English
As a tree through the ages[1]
Type	Public university
Established	March 15, 1827; 191 years ago
Affiliation	AAU, ACU, AUCC, U15, URA
Endowment	
C$2.38 billion (excl. colleges)[2]
C$2.84 billion (incl. colleges)[2]
Chancellor	Rose M. Patten[3]
President	Meric Gertler[3]
Academic staff
2,547[4]
Administrative staff
4,590[4]
Students	61,339[5]
Undergraduates	43,820[5]
Postgraduates	17,519[5]
Location	Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Coordinates: 43°39'42?N 79°23'42?W
Campus	Urban, 71 hectares (180 acres)[4]
Colours	
 	 
Athletics	U Sports – OUA, CUFLA
Nickname	Varsity Blues
Sports	44 varsity teams
Mascot	True Blue (the Beaver)
Website	utoronto.ca
UofT Logo.svg
The University of Toronto (U of T, UToronto, or Toronto) is a public research university in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, located on the grounds that surround Queen's Park. It was founded by royal charter in 1827 as King's College, the first institution of higher learning in the colony of Upper Canada. Originally controlled by the Church of England, the university assumed the present name in 1850 upon becoming a secular institution. As a collegiate university, it comprises eleven colleges, which differ in character and history, each with substantial autonomy on financial and institutional affairs. It has two satellite campuses in Scarborough and Mississauga. The university is commonly ranked as the best Canadian university, according to various major publications. Academically, the University of Toronto is noted for influential movements and curricula in literary criticism and communication theory, known collectively as the Toronto School. The university was the birthplace of insulin and stem cell research, and was the site of the first practical electron microscope, the development of multi-touch technology, the identification of the first black hole Cygnus X-1, and the development of the theory of NP-completeness. By a significant margin, it receives the most annual scientific research funding of any Canadian university. It is one of two members of the Association of American Universities outside the United States, the other being McGill University in Montreal, Quebec. [6]

The Varsity Blues are the athletic teams that represent the university in intercollegiate league matches, with long and storied ties to gridiron football and ice hockey. The earliest recorded college football game was played in the University of Toronto's University College in the 1860s. The university's Hart House is an early example of the North American student centre, simultaneously serving cultural, intellectual, and recreational interests within its large Gothic-revival complex. The University of Toronto has educated three Governors General of Canada, four Prime Ministers of Canada, four foreign leaders, and fourteen Justices of the Supreme Court. As of 2018, ten Nobel laureates, three Turing Award winners, 94 Rhodes Scholars, and one Fields Medalist have been affiliated with the university. 