[5]

Extensions
An extension of word2vec to construct embeddings from entire documents (rather than the individual words) has been proposed. [8] This extension is called paragraph2vec or doc2vec and has been implemented in the C, Python[9][10] and Java/Scala[11] tools (see below), with the Java and Python versions also supporting inference of document embeddings on new, unseen documents. Word vectors for bioinformatics: BioVectors
An extension of word vectors for n-grams in biological sequences (e.g. DNA, RNA, and Proteins) for bioinformatics applications have been proposed by Asgari and Mofrad. [12] Named bio-vectors (BioVec) to refer to biological sequences in general with protein-vectors (ProtVec) for proteins (amino-acid sequences) and gene-vectors (GeneVec) for gene sequences, this representation can be widely used in applications of machine learning in proteomics and genomics. The results suggest that BioVectors can characterize biological sequences in terms of biochemical and biophysical interpretations of the underlying patterns. [12] A similar variant, dna2vec, has shown that there is correlation between Needleman-Wunsch similarity score and cosine similarity of dna2vec word vectors. [13]

Word vectors for Radiology: Intelligent Word Embedding (IWE)
An extension of word vectors for creating a dense vector representation of unstructured radiology reports has been proposed by Banerjee et. al. [14] One of the biggest challenges with Word2Vec is how to handle unknown or out-of-vocabulary (OOV) words and morphologically similar words. This can particularly be an issue in domains like medicine where synonyms and related words can be used depending on the preferred style of radiologist, and words may have been used infrequently in a large corpus. If the word2vec model has not encountered a particular word before, it will be forced to use a random vector, which is generally far from its ideal representation. IWE combines Word2vec with a semantic dictionary mapping technique to tackle the major challenges of information extraction from clinical texts, which include ambiguity of free text narrative style, lexical variations, use of ungrammatical and telegraphic phases, arbitrary ordering of words, and frequent appearance of abbreviations and acronyms. Of particular interest, the IWE model (trained on the one institutional dataset) successfully translated to a different institutional dataset which demonstrates good generalizability of the approach across institutions. Analysis
The reasons for successful word embedding learning in the word2vec framework are poorly understood. Goldberg and Levy point out that the word2vec objective function causes words that occur in similar contexts to have similar embeddings (as measured by cosine similarity) and note that this is in line with J. R. Firth's distributional hypothesis. However, they note that this explanation is "very hand-wavy" and argue that a more formal explanation would be preferable. [2]

Levy et al. (2015)[15] show that much of the superior performance of word2vec or similar embeddings in downstream tasks is not a result of the models per se, but of the choice of specific hyperparameters. Transferring these hyperparameters to more 'traditional' approaches yields similar performances in downstream tasks. Preservation of semantic and syntactic relationships
The word embedding approach is able to capture multiple different degrees of similarity between words. Mikolov et al. 