Estimated net income in the second quarter of 2018 was $196 million, an increase of $273 million compared to the net loss of $77 million in the same period of 2017. 

The quarter was characterized by significant planned maintenance at Imperial’s major upstream and downstream assets. These activities affected operational results and were aligned with the company’s commitment to maintain safe and reliable operations. Planned turnarounds occurred at one of Kearl’s two plants, Cold Lake’s second largest plant, Syncrude’s largest coker, and at Strathcona, the company’s largest refinery. 

“Completion of the heavy maintenance schedule in the second quarter positions the company for strong operational performance in the second half of 2018,” said Rich Kruger, chairman, president and chief executive officer. 

Refinery throughput averaged 363,000 barrels per day and petroleum product sales averaged 510,000 barrels per day. Despite the Strathcona refinery turnaround, Imperial achieved its highest quarterly sales volumes in nearly 30 years, demonstrating the company’s commitment to grow sales and reliably supply customers. To maximize value, Imperial continued to leverage its logistics and processing capabilities to take advantage of discounted Canadian heavy crude prices. 

Upstream gross oil-equivalent production was 336,000 barrels per day, reflecting the impact of planned turnaround activities. Recovery from the June 20 power outage at Syncrude is ongoing with partial production restored in July and return to full rates anticipated in September. The company continued to progress activities to enhance future operations, including construction to add supplemental crushing capacity at Kearl and scaled application of new solvent technology at Cold Lake. 

In the quarter, Imperial renewed its share purchase program, allowing the company to buy approximately 40 million shares over the 12-months ending June 26, 2019. Under the prior program that ended June 26, 2018, Imperial purchased 41 million shares for $1.6 billion. In the first half of 2018, Imperial returned $1.4 billion to shareholders through share purchases and dividends. Imperial’s approach to capital allocation focuses on maintaining a strong balance sheet, paying a reliable and growing dividend, investing in attractive growth opportunities and returning surplus cash to shareholders through share buybacks. 

“Our business model offers distinct competitive advantages that are difficult for others to replicate,” added Kruger. “We are focused on capitalizing on these advantages to maximize near-term business results and long-term shareholder value.”
